
layout: seminar_page
category: ""
n: 161

title: "Moving Towards 6G : Transformation and Realization"  
speaker: "Dr. Hemant Kumar Rath, TCS Research"
img: assets/img/seminars/Sep20HemantKumarRath.png
date: 2023-09-20 17:00:00 
Venue: Online on zoom
recorded_video: 
zoom_link: https://zoom.us/j/99506912102?pwd=c3VWNHpJdmZVWXNsNDRxdHhVaTBuZz09
slides: 
speaker_url: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=vYLx5DUAAAAJ&hl=en
speaker_bio: "Hemant is a Senior Member of IEEE, holds MTech and Ph.D. in Communication Engg. from IIT Bombay, and BE in EL&TCE from VSSUT Burla, Odisha. He has close to 25 years of experience in academics, research, and industry. At present, Hemant is a Principal Scientist at TCS Research Bhubaneswar. His research interests include NextGen Network Design, Software Defined Networks, Industrial Applications, QoS in Networks, Network Security, etc. He has authored many research papers, co-authored a book, delivered several talks, and has more than 70 granted patents in the broad areas of communication and networking. Hemant has received several awards including the Distinguished Engineer Award in TCS. He is active in national and international standardization (IoT -ITU-T, GISFI, TSDSI, IEEE) in the areas of networking and communications. He is also teaching at IIT Bhubaneswar (School of Electrical Sciences) as an Adjunct Faculty since July 2019."


Topic_abstract: "The emerging 6G Communication has the potential to bring disruptions in the market and the society. It has the ability to bring plethora of new applications. In this talk, we plan to discuss the journey of 6G, emerging technologies which will be driving 6G, transformation activities to realize the new emerging applications and solutions, and the Industry view on this."

---
