
layout: seminar_page
category: ""

cancelled: true

title: "Modeling and simulation paradigms for building scalable Digital Twins"  
speaker: "Prof. Neha Karanjkar, IIT Goa"
img: assets/img/seminars/Aug-10-NehaKaranjkar.png
date: 2023-08-10 17:00:00 
Venue: MP 30
recorded_video: xCLNH8o2too
zoom_link: https://zoom.us/j/99506912102?pwd=c3VWNHpJdmZVWXNsNDRxdHhVaTBuZz09
slides: 

speaker_bio: "Dr. Neha Karanjkar is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Goa. She obtained her MTech and Ph.D. degrees from the Electrical Engineering department at IIT Bombay.  Before joining IIT Goa, she has worked as a Postdoctoral fellow at the Robert Bosch Centre for Cyber-Physical Systems at IISc Bangalore and as a research associate at IIT Bombay on the development of the 'Ajit' indigenous microprocessor. Her research interests are in modeling, simulation and optimization of Discrete-event systems in application areas such as computer system design, digital twins in manufacturing and retail. Her current focus is on building scalable simulation frameworks for discrete-event and mixed discrete-continuous systems. She currently serves as the Chair of the ACM Goa professional chapter and a member of the ACM India Education Committee."

Topic_abstract: 'Digital Twins are becoming pervasive across many industries. For application domains such as manufacturing, a key challenge in their effective deployment is the development of open frameworks for modeling and scalable simulation of hybrid systems. These are systems consisting of interacting components modeled using different paradigms. Choosing the right modeling paradigm for each sub-system and simulating the entire system at scale can be challenging. In this talk, I will present an overview of multiple modelling paradigms, with a focus on the challenges specific to digital twins and how simulation can be performed in each case. I will then discuss simulation approaches for hybrid systems and present our work towards the development of a Python framework for mixed discrete-event and continuous simulation for digital twins.'


---
