---
layout: page
title:  "CNI Workshop 2021"

teaser: "The Centre for Networked Intelligence at Indian Institute of Science (IISc), is organizing its inaugural one-day workshop titled: WiFi QoS: Evolution of Standards and Performance Modelling on 25 February 2021 from 9:00 am – 5:00 pm IST."
categories:
    - event
    - announcement
permalink: /cni-workshop-2021/
header:
 title: "CNI Workshop 2021"
 background-color: "#334d5c"

---
## WiFi QoS: Evolution of Standards and Performance Modelling
The [Centre for Networked Intelligence](https://cni.iisc.ac.in/) at [Indian Institute of Science (IISc)](https://www.iisc.ac.in/), is organizing its inaugural one-day workshop titled: **WiFi QoS: Evolution of Standards and Performance Modelling** on **25 February 2021** from 9:00 am – 5:00 pm IST.

The workshop will have two sessions. The morning session, by distinguished speakers from industry, will be an overview of the developments in the WiFi standards. The afternoon session will consists of a tutorial-style session by Prof. Anurag Kumar on modelling and analysis of WiFi networks. The session is titled: **Understanding WiFi Networks Performance.**

Participation is free, but we request all participants to register for the event. You may register for the workshop [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScgtNtWW08TBlKsVoZdv2TaKSaZ7pkQatRGLE6M-7vqMyX5CQ/viewform?usp=sf_link).

#### Tentative Schedule

Morning session: **Evolution and advances in WiFi Standards**
<div markdown="1">
<table>
  <tr>
   <th>Time</th>
   <th>Agenda</th>
   <th>Speaker</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>09:00 am – 10:00 am</td>
   <td>802.11ax (WiFi 6): Key Features</td>
   <td><span markdown="1">[Nadeem Akhtar](https://cni.iisc.ac.in/cni-workshop-2021/#NadeemA) (Arista Networks)</span></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>10:00 am – 11:00 am</td>
   <td>802.11be (WiFi 7): MAC Layer Enhancements</td>
   <td><span markdown="1">[S. Srikanth](https://cni.iisc.ac.in/cni-workshop-2021/#SSrikanth) (NanoCell Networks)</span></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>11:00 am – 11:15 am</td>
   <td>BREAK</td>
   <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>11:15 am – 12:15 am</td>
   <td>WLAN 802.11be Physical Layer</td>
   <td><span markdown="1">[Ashutosh Gore](https://cni.iisc.ac.in/cni-workshop-2021/#AshutoshG) (Qualcomm India)</span></td>
  </tr>
</table>
Afternoon session: **Understanding WiFi Networks Performance**
<table>
  <tr>
   <th>Time</th>
   <th>Agenda</th>
   <th>Speaker</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>2:00 pm  – 3:20 pm</td>
   <td>Lecture – I</td>
   <td><span markdown="1">[Prof. Anurag Kumar](https://cni.iisc.ac.in/cni-workshop-2021/#AnuragK) (Indian Institute of Science)</span></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>3:20 pm – 3:30 pm</td>
   <td>Break</td>
   <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>3:30 pm – 4:50 pm</td>
   <td>Lecture – II</td>
   <td><span markdown="1">[Prof. Anurag Kumar](Prof. Anurag Kumar)</span></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>4:50 pm – 5:00 pm</td>
   <td>Q&A</td>
   <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>
</div>
The workshop features talks by academia and industries experts as following:  
<div style="padding: 10px;border: 1px solid gray;margin: 0;box-shadow: 1px 1px 5px 1px;" markdown="1">
**Time:** 25th Feb. 2021, 09:00 am – 10:00 am

**Speaker:** Mr. Nadeem Akhtar, Arista Networks

**Title:** 802.11ax (WiFi 6): Key Features

**Bio:** 

Nadeem Akhtar is Product Manager at Arista Networks where he focusses on R&D for the WiFi products. He also represents Arista at standardization bodies such as IEEE and industry consortia including the WiFi Alliance and IEEE. He was earlier Principal Wireless Architect at Mojo Networks, working on the deployment of the pan-India Jio WiFi network. Prior to this, Nadeem was associated with the Centre of Excellence in Wireless Technology, where he contributed towards national and global standards development activities in the telecom domain.
</div>
<div style="padding: 10px;border: 1px solid gray;margin: 0;box-shadow: 1px 1px 5px 1px;" markdown="1">
**Time:** 25th Feb. 2021, 10:00 am – 11:00 am

**Speaker:** Mr. S. Srikanth, NanoCell Networks

**Title:** 802.11be (WiFi 7): MAC Layer Enhancements

**Bio:** 

Srikanth obtained his B.E., degree from College of Engineering, Anna University, Chennai, and M. A.Sc, and Ph. D. degrees from University of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. He is currently the Chief Knowledge Officer for Nanocell Networks Pvt. Ltd. and also consults for Mojo Networks. Srikanth began his career as a research associate at the University of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada working in the area of DSL and CDMA Systems. After his Ph. D., he joined Harris Corporation and worked on baseband algorithms for various wireless standards including IS-136 and 1S-95 systems. He then joined the KBC Research Foundation/AU-KBC Research Centre and he has focused on OFDM systems for powerline and wireless applications. From 2004-2007 he was awarded a Young Scientist Fellowship by the Government of India to work on technologies related to upgrades on 802.11 and 802.16 standards. He has been working in 802.11 technologies for the past 4-5 years and has delivered several courses to corporate clients in this area. He has consulted on various areas of OFDM systems and has also been involved in the setting up of a test lab for 802.11.
</div>

<div style="padding: 10px;border: 1px solid gray;margin: 0;box-shadow: 1px 1px 5px 1px;" markdown="1">
**Time:** 25th Feb. 2021, 11:15 am – 12:15 am 

**Speaker:** Mr. Ashutosh Gore, Qualcomm India

**Title:** WLAN 802.11be Physical Layer

**Abstract:** This talk provides an overview of the physical layer (L1) in the next generation WLAN standard, termed as EHT (Extra High Throughput) and IEEE 802.11be. In particular, we will discuss how advanced features like multi RU, punctured transmissions, 4096 QAM, 320MHz bandwidth and 8 spatial streams leads to 10Gbps link rates.

**Bio:** 

Ashutosh Deepak Gore obtained his B.Tech. and Ph.D. degrees from IIT Bombay, and M.S. degree from University of Hawaii, all in Electrical Engineering. He worked in Nortel Networks, USA from 2000 to 2002. From 2008 onwards, he has worked in various semiconductor companies in India, viz. Marvell Semiconductor, Broadcom, Samsung R&D and Qualcomm, where he is currently Principal Engineer/Manager. His work in Qualcomm focusses on PHYsical layer algorithms and functional reference models for next generation (IEEE 802.11be compliant) wireless local area networks. He joined Qualcomm in May 2016 and seeded the WLAN PHY modeling group in Qualcomm Bangalore. His team developed several key PHY blocks in multiple generations of WLAN AP & STA chipsets. He has 10 US granted patents and 14 approved for filing. He has published 3 IEEE journal papers and 8 conference papers.
</div>

<div style="padding: 10px;border: 1px solid gray;margin: 0;box-shadow: 1px 1px 5px 1px;" markdown="1">
**Time:** 25th Feb. 2021, 2:00 pm – 5:pm 

**Speaker:** Prof. Anurag Kumar, Indian Institute of Science

**Title:** Understanding WiFi Networks Performance

**Bio:** 

Prof. Anurag Kumar, B.Tech (1977) IIT Kanpur, PhD (1981) Cornell Univ., was a Member of Technical Staff in AT&T Bell Laboratories (1981-1988), before returning to India and joining the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) as a faculty member in the ECE Department. He became a Professor in 1996, was the Director of the Institute during 2014-2020, and now, after superannuation from IISc, he is an Honorary Professor. He has published almost 200 peer reviewed papers in journals and conferences, in the area of communications networking and distributed systems.

Prof. Kumar returned to India at a time when the telecommunications revolution was just taking off and the Internet was just a fledgling network. He was one of the leaders of the ERNET project that established India’s first nationwide Internet, that carried academic traffic for over a decade. Prof. Kumar was one of the early researchers in India in the mathematical approach to understanding and designing modern communication networks. He has led the authorship of two major text books on communication networking that have been used around the world.

He was the 1977 President’s Gold Medalist in IIT Kanpur. He received the IISc Alumni Award for Excellence in Engineering Research for 2008. He has been elected Fellow of the IEEE, the Indian National Science Academy (INSA), the Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE), the Indian Academy of Science (IASc), and The World Academy of Sciences (TWAS). During the period 2005-2009, he was an area editor for the IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking and was then on its steering committee from 2010-2014. He received the 2015 Vasvik Award for Information Technology, and the 2017 IEI-IEEE Award for Engineering Excellence. He is a recipient of the J.C. Bose National Fellowship, awarded by the Department of Science and Technology, for the period 2011-2021.
</div>
