---
layout: page
title:  "Ph.D. Fellowship (2021-22)"
teaser: "Applications are invited from the PhD students in the Division of EECS and the RBCCPS at IISc who have passed their comprehensive examinations (or will pass by 13-Aug-2021) for a Research Scholarship Programme under the Centre for Networked Intelligence (a Cisco CSR Initiative).  Six scholarship awards are available under this programme for 2021-2022."
categories:
    - announcement
permalink: /phd-fellowship-2021-22/
header:
 title: "Ph.D. Fellowship (2021-22)"
 background-color: "#334d5c"

---
Applications are invited from the PhD students in the Division of EECS and the RBCCPS at IISc who have passed their comprehensive examinations (or will pass by 13-Aug-2021) for a Research Scholarship Programme under the Centre for Networked Intelligence (a Cisco CSR Initiative).  Six scholarship awards are available under this programme for 2021-2022.

Full-time EECS and RBCCPS students (admitted through the regular interview process), not granted another externally sponsored fellowship (e.g.,TCS, Qualcomm, TI, Intel, Visvesvaraya, WIRIN, etc.), are eligible to apply. The broad areas of PhD research of interest to the centre include technologies for networked intelligence such as control over networks, network slicing, data center networks, wireless networks, networks for smart cities, networks for CPS, and other related topics. The scholarship will be for the duration 01 August 2021 to 31 July 2022 or completion of PhD, whichever is earlier. The evaluation committee will look at the quality of the application, proposed contributions to CNI activities, and the relevance of the proposed research to the centre’s objective of showcasing innovative applications or theories of networked intelligence. The scholarship may be renewed subject to availability of funds and satisfactory progress towards meeting the Centre’s objectives. The stipend will be Rs 50,000 per month and will be in lieu of the MHRD stipend. Some financial support for travel (upto Rs 1 lakh of which 60% can be used for partial funding of international travel) and a contingency grant (upto Rs 40,000) are available. Exact amounts will be indicated at the time of award of fellowship to the selected candidates.
 
The following material should be included in the application package (a single PDF document) with size limit (5 MB) that includes: 
1. Covering letter indicating how your work relates to networked intelligence systems and the Centre’s areas of interest. Also indicate how you propose to contribute to CNI activities such as network seminar series organisation, hackathons, workshops, research projects of CNI, network experiments, online course teaching, outreach, etc. 
2. CV including marks or grades in Bachelors, Masters, other degrees, years of graduation, honours and awards, publications, coursework completed, grades, work experience, etc. 
3. A two-page write-up on your research area — include a short review, broad problem statement, proposed scope and focus. Include any results already obtained and papers published. 

The application **email** with a single PDF document as attachment (size at most 5 MB) has to be forwarded by adviser and should reach contact.cni@iisc.ac.in **on or before ~~08-Aug-2021~~ <u>15-Aug-2021</u>  (IST).**
