---
layout: page
title:  "CNI Ph.D. Fellowship (2022-23)"
teaser: "Applications are invited from the PhD students in the Division of EECS and the RBCCPS at IISc who have passed their comprehensive examinations (or will pass by 13-Aug-2021) for a Research Scholarship Programme under the Centre for Networked Intelligence (a Cisco CSR Initiative).  Six scholarship awards are available under this programme for 2021-2022."
categories:
    - announcement
permalink: /phd-fellowship-2022-23/
header:
 title: "CNI Ph.D. Fellowship (2022-23)"
 background-color: "#334d5c"

---

## Call for applications: CNI PhD Fellowship (2022-23) 

Applications are invited from the PhD students in the Division of EECS and the RBCCPS for a Research Fellowship Programme under the Centre for Networked Intelligence (a Cisco CSR Initiative). The fellowship will be for the duration of 01 August 2022 to 31 July 2023 or completion of PhD, whichever is earlier. 

### Eligibility:  

Full-time EECS and RBCCPS students (admitted through the regular interview process), not granted another externally sponsored fellowship (e.g., TCS, Qualcomm, TI, Intel, Visvesvaraya, WIRIN, etc.), are eligible to apply.  

The evaluation committee will look at the applicant’s academic profile, proposed and past contributions to CNI activities, and the relevance of the proposed research to the centre’s objective of showcasing innovative applications or theories of networked intelligence. Higher relevance will be assigned to proposed work in the current CNI project topics: 

- Data center networks  
- Data-driven decision frameworks for public health 
- Deterministic networks and programmable data plane 
- Industrial control systems 
- Wi-Fi optimisation and network slicing 

### Monthly fellowship support:  

The CNI fellows will be selected by the evaluation committee, and the CNI scholarship will be in lieu of the MoE scholarship. Exact amount will be indicated at the time of award, and a selected few fellows will receive a slightly higher monthly remuneration. 

### Additional benefits:  

CNI also offers financial support for research publications and conference travel (up to Rs 2 lakh of which 50% can be used for funding of international travel) subject to availability of funds.  

Additional honorarium will be paid to the fellows assisting in conducting CNI events. CNI fellows are expected to actively participate in CNI events and contribute towards CNI activities during the year. 

### Application process:  

Following information should be included in the fellowship application: 

1. Covering letter indicating how your wor relates to networked intelligence systems and the Centre’s areas of interest. Please indicate how you propose to contribute to CNI activities such as network seminar series organisation or online course modules (mention the course topics). 
1. Full academic résumé including marks/grades in Bachelors, Masters, other degrees, years of graduation, honours and awards, publications, work experience, etc.  
1. IISc course transcript. 
1. A two-page write-up on your research area — include a short review, broad problem statement, proposed scope, and focus. Please include any results already obtained and the papers published. 

The application **email** with a single PDF document as attachment (size at most 10 MB) needs to be forwarded by adviser and should reach contact.cni@iisc.ac.in **on or before ~~16-Aug-2022~~ 21-Aug-2022 (IST).** 

More details on past CNI fellowships are at [https://cni.iisc.ac.in](https://cni.iisc.ac.in).

