---

layout: highlight_page # Do not change this portion

title: Resource Aware Control of Networked Control Systems


speaker: Anusree Rajan

img: assets/img/highlights/2021/anusreerajan2021.png

year: 2021

category: phd #should have either mtech or phd

report_video: 87gn2wNM8PQ

---

**Resource Aware Control of Networked Control Systems**
A networked control system is a control system where the feedback loop is closed 
through a communication network. Networked control systems have different field of 
applications such as environment monitoring, industrial automation, healthcare applications, 
disaster management and military surveillance. One of the main challenges in networked 
control systems is resource constraints such as communication, computation and energy 
constraints. A popular control method widely used in networked control systems is event or 
self-triggered control. The main advantage of the event/self-triggered control method is the
efficient utilization of resources while simultaneously achieving control objectives. In these 
control methods, sampling or communication times are determined implicitly by a state 
dependent triggering rule, which results in aperiodic transmissions or control updates based 
on need. Thus, event/self-triggered control is usually far more efficient in the usage of limited 
resources. However, as the update times are implicitly determined and aperiodic, higher-level 
planning and scheduling of shared resources is difficult. So, it is important to study about 
inter-event times for designing controllers that properly balance control objectives and 
constrained resources. For example, understanding the evolution of inter-event times helps 
to schedule multiple processes over a shared communication channel or to plan transmissions 
under constraints. Similarly, understanding inter-event times generated by an event/selftriggering rule can help in the analytical quantification of the improvement of average interevent times for an event/self-triggered controller over that of a time-triggered controller.
However, very little research has been done on this problem.
My current work deals with the analysis of evolution of inter-event times in linear 
systems under event-triggered control and region-based self-triggered control. In the first 
part of this work, we consider planar systems under control with a class of scale-invariant 
event triggering rules. In this setting, the inter-event time is a function of the ``angle'' of the 
state at an event. This allows us to analyze the steady state convergence of inter-event times 
by studying the fixed points of the ``angle'' map, which represents the evolution of the 
``angle'' of the state from one event to the next. For a specific triggering rule, we provide 
necessary conditions for the existence of a fixed point of the angle map. We also analyze 
stability and region of convergence of a fixed point of the ``angle'' map. With the help of 
ergodic theory, we provide a sufficient condition for the asymptotic average inter-event time 
to be a constant for all initial states of the system. Then, we consider a special case where the 
``angle'' map is an orientation-preserving homeomorphism. Using rotation theory, we 
comment on the asymptotic behavior of the inter-event times, including on whether the 
inter-event times converge to a periodic sequence. We also analyze the asymptotic average 
inter-event time as a function of the ``angle'' of the initial state of the system. In some special 
kind of scenarios, we also provide insights on how one could compute the asymptotic average 
inter-event time efficiently
In the second part of this work, we consider n-dimensional systems under regionbased self-triggered control, in which the state space is partitioned into a finite number of 
conic regions and each region is associated with a fixed inter-event time. We analyze the 
evolution of inter-event times under the proposed self-triggered control method. In this 
framework, studying steady state behavior of the inter-event times is equivalent to studying 
the existence of a conic subregion, which is a positively invariant set under the map that gives 
the evolution of the state from one event to the next. We provide a sufficient condition for 
the existence of a special kind of positively invariant subregion called positively invariant ray. 
We also provide necessary and sufficient conditions for a positively invariant ray to be 
asymptotically stable. We also explore the existence of positively invariant subregions that do 
not include a positively invariant ray. We illustrate the proposed method of analysis and 
analytical results through numerical simulations.
My research plans for the final year of my Ph. D. include the co-design of a controller 
and an event-triggering rule by using a reinforcement learning based approach to maximize 
the asymptotic average inter-event times.

**Contributions to CNI during the academic year August 2021 – July 2022**
• Volunteer for organizing CNI network seminar series